In this section I'm going to show you how to create a great looking marketing web site for your app.
So we're going to be completely away from Android studio and we're actually going to use the tools that
you get free with this course in your area we're posting account.
So if you haven't set that up yet go right back to the beginning of the course and watch the video that
shows you how.
Of course you're very welcome to use another web hosting system or to do this another way if you prefer.
We're going to be using a freely available system called WordPress which allows you to create and edit
a web site without knowing any TNL or javascript or any coding at all in fact it's really great.
And if you want to get into developing web sites I'd definitely recommend looking into WordPress but
we'll see a lot more about how WordPress works in a minute.
So going back to your eco web hosting account the first thing you need to do is to create a hosting
package hosting package essentially adds a domain name to your account and allows you to put something
on it.
So you might want to add to something like my great app dot com or if you've actually got a name for
your app you might want to put that in there.
You don't have to own the domain name to test it out.
But if you want to use the actual domain name itself you will need to purchase it.
You can do that from either web hosting for around seven pounds a year depending on the domain or you
could do that with another company completely up to you if you just want to test it out and just put
any domain you like in there and that will then set up for you.
Once you've done that you can go over to access your panels over here and then that will give you a
list of the domains that you've created you can say I've got a test one here and then Android of course
is the domain I'm going to be using for this particular demo here.
So once you click on the domain name that will then log you into the see panel or control panel for
that particular hosting package.
And here we are.
This is where you can do all sorts of things with your hosting package.
I'll just give you a very quick flavor of what you can see so you can work with files up here.
Backup your Web site work with e-mail.
You will need a live domain so you will need to have to purchase a domain if you want to work with email
but you can do everything you would want to do with e-mail.
Then there's various web stats and logs packages there my school databases page versions if all of this
means nothing to you and you want to get into web development.
You might want to check out my web developer course as it covers all of this but we're just going to
scroll down because we're going to work with the one particular CGI script which is Wordpress blog.
Now it's called WordPress blog but it's not specifically to blogs.
All sorts of sites one word press.
And I think it's actually something like 15 percent of the Internet runs on wordpress.
So it is pretty huge.
So your only choice when installing Wordpress is a location.
So if you want to install WordPress on the route of your site so if you wanted it to appear at say Android
dev cause dot com then you would leave the block box back.
I'm going to enter a subdirectory there.
So this is going to appear at Android of course.
Slash demo sites and you can actually check it out.
Now if you want to it is there.
So let's click install site and that will then set up WordPress for you.
It takes a few seconds but then when it's done you'll be able to jump over to it.
Here we go.
And I'm going to click on that top on the Android of course slash demo site and then it will run through
the installation progress for you.
So I'm going to call it my awesome app.
Use a name you can have anything you like say I'll have a personal password.
Good to have something nice and secure.
I'm still very weak.
Well it's just a demo anyway.
But obviously try and make a nice strong password and then your email address.
So I'll put mine in there too then just off the screen there I think that was the install word press
button.
So that's now been installed super easy.
So then log in we've got a capture test just to avoid any denial of service attacks.
So just enter the number them and then log in using the username and password that you just entered.
And I would click remember me you're probably coming back and doing things on it later.
Here we go.
So this is the Wordpress dashboard and the first thing to see is that there's an updated version of
Wordpress available.
So I always recommend doing an update if there is one available.
And then just click the big blue update now button because Wordpress is so widely used it's often hacked
and old versions are vulnerable to attack.
So here we go.
Just make sure you keep your site up to the latest version at all times.
OK.
So back to the dashboard.
Let's have a quick look and see what we've got here.
We've got some basic options.
So writing your first post we're actually creating a blog here so we're not that interested in those
particular bits.
And indeed the dashboard is probably somewhere you're not going to spend a lot of time unless you are
actually making a blog and working with comments et cetera.
So I would go straight to the pages area and this is what we're going to be working with.
So pages are designed for more static content rather than blog posts.
So we're going to set our site up as a page rather than a post.
And that means we don't really need to worry about posts or any pay that much attention to media although
we'll be looking at that later on really media is just a place to store all of your images and possibly
videos and other media content that you want on your site.
Again comments we're not going to be working with.
But if you do want to then we've got our default comment here and as soon as comments come along you
can choose to approve them or reply to them et cetera.
So I'm going to jump over quickly to the settings page and just show you a few settings you should change
whenever you create a WordPress site.
So we've got our site title which we entered at the beginning my awesome app.
So you should change the tagline of your site.
That explains why your app is great.
This is the URL that we entered at the beginning so you can change that there if you want to.
And then you've got a few basic settings that I'm not going to change.
So once we've saved that's another thing I always change is the public's So normally if you create lots
of pages on your site then you get links like this which aren't particularly nice or friendly.
So I usually change it to post name so it will just show the name of the post in the actual link in
the address bar.
You can really have something else there.
But OK for past posts name unless you particularly want something else.
All right.
So that's the very basics of wordpress.
The main thing of course we want with our site is for it to look good.
We're not interested in a massively complicated site but we just want something that looks good and
has a link to download our app.
So I'm going to use the app with a Zad WordPress theme which you can find in apps with Zed dot themes
shakeout dot com and you can see it looks like this which is pretty snazzy.
And the great thing about it is it's completely free.
So if you want to do something more advanced or more customized then it's well worth paying a little
bit of money for a decent theme for your website.
But if you just want to get something up and running quickly then this free thing is a great way to
go.
So this theme is on theme shaker dot dotcom which has a number of other themes available as well.
And if you just Google WordPress themes you'll have a bunch of options.
But if you want to follow along with this tutorial then go to theme shake a dot com and search themes
for apps with a zed and then you'll get this one here so you can view the demo that we just looked at
and then click get theme and that will then download the theme files to your computer.
I'm just going to say them on the desktop and then we just need to import them into our WordPress website.
So we go down to appearance and themes.
You can see there's all sorts of options there which I'm not going to go into into great detail beyond
just creating our basic app but there's a lot of choice and power that we can add him.
So these are the themes that we have available.
By default we can add a new theme which is what we want to do.
And you can see that there's a huge range of free themes available just within the Wordpress set up
so you can install them completely from here.
But what we want to do is upload a theme because we've found a theme on a separate web site and downloaded
it.
So we just click upload theme and then choose File and then find the file that you downloaded a moment
ago.
Apps themed up zip and then click Install now.
That will then upload the theme and that's installed already.
So I'm actually going to click activate straight away if you're not certain that you want to use it.
Then you can have a live preview but it's definitely the one that we're going to go for a song and click
activate there and there it is.
So now we've got our new theme in place.
Let's take a look.
So I'm going to command click or control click on Windows to visit the site in a new browser tab.
And here it is.
So first off I've already got this bar at the top because I'm logged into WordPress but you won't see
that if you just visit these sites.
It's just when you are logged into WordPress.
So it already looks pretty good we've got this nice big banner image at the top here.
Our logo and our big download button.
So now what remains is to customize our Web site putting our own content on and essentially trying it
trying to make it look more like the demo but with our own content so we're going to add some screenshots
here and we're going to add some images and text down further on as well.
We'll do all that in the next video.
I'll see you there.